*vim-java-regex*


Regex Testing
*************

*:JavaRegex*

Eclim provides a means to test java regular expressions.  Simply
execute :JavaRegex and a Vim window will open allowing you to test
your regular expression.

By default the content of the regex window will be:

>

   te(st)
   Some test content used to test
   language specific regex against.

<


The first line of this window is the regular expression to test, and
the remaining lines consist of the content to test against.  When you
write the file (:w), eclim will evaluate the regular expression and
highlight all matched occurrences as well as any groups found within
those occurrences.

When applying the regex against the text, by default eclim will run
the regex against the whole text at once, where '^' and '$' would
match the start and end of the whole sample text, not each individual
line.  If you would like to instead have the regex matched against
each line individually, then you can set the buffer local variable
b:eclim_regex_type to 'line'.  To switch back to the default mode
simply set the same variable to 'file' instead.

By default eclim uses four different highlighting groups, two of which
are alternated between for the full matches, and two that are
alternated between for the group matches.  Eclim alternates the
highlighting so that you can distinguish one match from the next even
if they occur one right after the other.  Before utilizing the regex
testing, you should first modify the four variables defined below
which define what highlighting groups will be used. Since color
schemes can vary greatly, eclim defaults to using some common groups
already defined by Vim.

The regex window also provides two commands to jump to the next or
previous match much like 'n' or 'N' for Vim searching:

*:NextMatch*

- :NextMatch - Jump to the next match.

*:PreMatch*

- :PrevMatch - Jump to the previous match.


Configuration
=============

Vim Variables

*g:EclimRegexHi_0*

- g:EclimRegexHi{0} (Default: 'Constant') - The first highlighting
  group used for full regex matches.

*g:EclimRegexHi_1*

- g:EclimRegexHi{1} (Default: 'MoreMsg') - The second highlighting
  group used for full regex matches.

*g:EclimRegexGroupHi_0*

- g:EclimRegexGroupHi{0} (Default: 'Statement') - The first
  highlighting group used for group matches.

*g:EclimRegexGroupHi_1*

- g:EclimRegexGroupHi{1} (Default: 'Todo') - The second highlighting
  group used for group matches.

*b:eclim_regex_type*

- b:eclim_regex_type (Default: 'file') - Possible values: 'file' or
  'line'

  Determines if the supplied regex should be applied against the
  sample text all at once ('file') or on each line individually
  ('line').

vim:ft=eclimhelp